README.md, before:

# hu.dwim.sdl

## What

It's a Common Lisp [FFI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Foreign_function_interface)
for http://libsdl.org/ (SDL2).

## Why

The alternative projects are partial, while this one uses
[cffi/c2ffi](https://github.com/cffi/cffi) to automatically generate
the complete CFFI bindings for the various subsystems of
[SDL2](http://libsdl.org/).

It only requires vanilla CFFI when used, no extra dependencies.

## Who

Written by [attila@lendvai.name](mailto:attila@lendvai.name).

## Where

The primary communication channel is the facilities on
[the project's GitHub page](https://github.com/hu-dwim/hu.dwim.sdl).

## How

This project uses [CFFI/C2FFI](https://github.com/cffi/cffi), whose
ASDF extension does two things:

1. When needed, it can invoke [c2ffi](https://github.com/rpav/c2ffi)
to process a C header file and emit a c2ffi spec file (a json file)
that contains every detail needed to generate an FFI for a given
platform. But yours truely has run this phase, and checked in the
resulting spec files into the [c2ffi-spec/](c2ffi-spec/)
directory. This way users don't need to have a working c2ffi
executable, nor the SDL dev headers installed.

2. Based on the above mentioned spec file, it generates the CFFI forms
into a lisp file (placed next to the spec file), and continues as if
it was just another lisp file written by hand. (These lisp files could
also be committed into the repo, but for now they are not, because
their regeneration is automatic and painless.)

## Status

It contains a complete FFI for `sdl.h`, `sdl-gfx.h`, `sdl-ttf.h`, and `sdl-image.h`.
Not much has been added yet to lispify the SDL API, but the CFFI binding part is complete.

Commit message:

added nix support and bin/generate-spec-files.sh
contrary to the readme, it doesn't work at the moment due to some errors
when running c2ffi.

README.md, after:

# hu.dwim.sdl

## What

It's a Common Lisp [FFI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Foreign_function_interface)
for http://libsdl.org/ (SDL2).

## Why

The alternative projects are partial, while this one uses
[cffi/c2ffi](https://github.com/cffi/cffi) to automatically generate
the complete CFFI bindings for the various subsystems of
[SDL2](http://libsdl.org/).

It only requires vanilla CFFI when used, no extra dependencies.

## Who

Written by [attila@lendvai.name](mailto:attila@lendvai.name).

## Where

The primary communication channel is the facilities on
[the project's GitHub page](https://github.com/hu-dwim/hu.dwim.sdl).

## How

This project uses [CFFI/C2FFI](https://github.com/cffi/cffi), whose
ASDF extension does two things:

1. When needed, it can invoke [c2ffi](https://github.com/rpav/c2ffi)
to process a C header file and emit a c2ffi spec file (a json file)
that contains every detail needed to generate an FFI for a given
platform. But yours truely has run this phase, and checked in the
resulting spec files into the [c2ffi-spec/](c2ffi-spec/)
directory. This way users don't need to have a working c2ffi
executable, nor the SDL dev headers installed.

2. Based on the above mentioned spec file, it generates the CFFI forms
into a lisp file (placed next to the spec file), and continues as if
it was just another lisp file written by hand. (These lisp files could
also be committed into the repo, but for now they are not, because
their regeneration is automatic and painless.)

### Regenerate the spec files

This should only be done when the SDL API has some new functionality
that is needed on the Lisp side. Once the `*.spec` files got
regenerated, they should be pushed into the git repo; i.e. the users
of `hu.dwim.sdl` shouldn't need to do this normally.

#### On Debian

This should work, assuming that you have a working `c2ffi` in the
path:

```
sudo apt-get install curl sbcl libsdl2-dev
rm -f c2ffi-spec/*.spec && ./bin/generate-spec-files.sh
```

#### On NixOS

```
$ nix-shell --pure
$ rm -f c2ffi-spec/*.spec && ./bin/generate-spec-files.sh
```

## Status

It contains a complete FFI for `sdl.h`, `sdl-gfx.h`, `sdl-ttf.h`, and `sdl-image.h`.
Not much has been added yet to lispify the SDL API, but the CFFI binding part is complete.
